Next up in our tour of device software to take a look at is AWS IoT Greengrass.
AWS IoT Greengrass extends AWS to edge devices so they can
act locally on the data they generate,
while still using the cloud for management,
analytics, and durable storage.
Now I've mentioned edge devices before,
so let's go and take a look at what exactly edge devices are.
Well, edge devices have full operating systems,
in contrast to microcontroller and Amazon FreeRTOS,
these are actually things that run something like Linux,
Android, or iOS.
They also differ in terms of their hardware.
They usually have more memory and storage than microcontrollers
that allows them to run these operating systems.
Further, they'll have IoT connections,
so they're going to be able to interact with IoT devices and the AWS IoT Core.
So not just one or the other, but both.
So why might we use edge devices?
One of the first reasons is because of the laws of physics.
Barring any advancements in quantum entanglement and quantum computing,
we're always going to be bound by the speed of light.
Information itself can't be transmitted faster than that,
and therefore will have some latency when we're trying to interact with
different locations that are far away from each other.
And sometimes when these Internet of Things devices are relatively far away,
they're going to have to deal with that latency.
Also,
because of the nature of IoT devices potentially being in
situations where intermittent connections are a thing,
we're going to need some way to actually deal with this.
Now think of a few situations surrounding potentially self driving cars.
You don't want to have to go and make a connection to the
cloud in order to determine whether or not you should stop
suddenly to avoid hitting a pedestrian.
You're going to want to take input from different sensors and process it there
locally on site and make decisions based on that information.
And then eventually you might want to send more information on to continue to
improve the algorithms that are running that self driving car.
Now those are just a few examples,
but another big reason is because of economics.
It's expensive to store worthless data and the volume of data created by
IoT is massive with the billions and billions of devices that are
continually being added to the IoT landscape,
creating and storing all of that data is exorbitantly expensive.
And it's being created at a faster rate than the
reduction in price for storage is going down.
So essentially this means that you're going to have a very expensive
situation on your hands if you don't start thinking about how to throw
away worthless data or process it and get the relevant components out on
those devices as it's being generated.
Now finally, we might also use edge devices because of regulation.
There are frequently becoming more regulations surrounding the Internet of
Things and restrictions on moving and storing data already exist,
thinking of things like GDPR and other requirements along those lines.
And so you're going to need some flexibility when it comes to
how you interact and deal with IoT data.
So now hopefully you're convinced that edge devices and
AWS IoT Greengrass are a good way to go.
What's the next step here?
Well that's the AWS IoT Greengrass Core.
Now this is the actual software that runs on Linux systems.
And it'll take at least 128 MB of memory,
as well as a 1 GHz processor or better.
So what exactly does the AWS IoT Greengrass Core
offer to people who are using it? Well let's take a look in the next videos.